# ImageStitcher

The goal of the project is to explore how to "stitch together" 2 stacks
of images capturing nerve cell structure in different regions of a
brain.  
In particular, the program applies specific set of algorithms (which can be configured by users) on given source and target image stacks comprising of thousands of feature points. These algorithms will - 
  * Detect overlap between the 2 stacks and generate matching correspondences (feature points from both stacks).  
  * Generate score (indicating confidence in the match).  
Currently, the program only supports stitching 2 image stacks but can be extended to stitch thousands of such stacks in future.

## Minimum requirements:
1. Linux is supported as a development and production platform
2. Java 7 or above. You can download latest Oracle JDK from -
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index-jsp-138363.html
3. Apache Hadoop 2.7.3
4. Apache Maven 3.3.9 or above
5. Git client

## Installation on Linux environment (Local)
Please make sure that commands - `git, mvn, hadoop and java` can be executed directly from the command line. 
If not, please add them to the PATH environment variable.  
Following are the steps to setup and build the project Linux environment using CLI (verified on Ubuntu 16.04): 

1. Check out the project using - `git clone https://github.com/ankur-shanbhag/ImageStitcher.git`
2. Steps to build the project
  * `cp configuration.properties.template configuration.properties`
  * Open _configuration.properties_ and add values for all the properties as per instructions in the file.   
    Eg: __hadoop.home=/usr/local/hadoop-2.7.3/__  
    The properties related to GnuPlot are optional and only needed by developers for debugging (discussed below)
  * Build the project - `./image-stitcher.sh build`
3. Run the project using - `./image-stitcher.sh run local.output.path=[output directory path to be created]

**NOTE:**  
  - Some algorithms may need input such as clustering configuration parameters (sample DBSCAN clustering configuration can be found at _sample-data/input_). In such cases input can be passed when you run the algorithm using param `local.input.path=[input path on local machine]`
  - Similarly there are many such configurable parameters than can be controlled by the user. Users can even configure classes to perform specific task.  
    Example - To control number of input records passed to a map task use `num.input.lines.mapper=2000`. For extensive list of all the configurable parameters refer developers guide.
  - Make sure to always run `./image-stitcher.sh build` whenever _configuration.properties_ file is modified. 
  - If any of the above specified steps do not work, verify all the required softwares are installed with specified versions. 

## Installation on AWS EMR
1. Start EMR cluster with Hadoop 2.7 or above.
2. SSH to AWS master node. For steps here - http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ElasticMapReduce/latest/DeveloperGuide/emr-connect-master-node-ssh.html
3. Install Git on master using `sudo yum install git-all`
4. Install Apache Maven using following commands
   * `sudo wget http://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/dchen/apache-maven/epel-apache-maven.repo -O /etc/yum.repos.d/epel-apache-maven.repo`
   * `sudo sed -i s/\$releasever/6/g /etc/yum.repos.d/epel-apache-maven.repo`
   * `sudo yum install -y apache-maven`
5. Optionally, you can copy input files, source and target image files on EMR master using `scp`. Sample image files can be found in directory `sample-data`  
   Eg: `scp -i [keyFile].pem -r ~/source-image hadoop@[emr-master-dns]:/home/hadoop`
7. Create S3 bucket (recommended for working on EMR) or use HDFS as a distributed storage. To use HDFS refer - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22343918/how-do-i-use-hdfs-with-emr
6. Once you have copied all the required file and have `git` and `mvn` installed, the steps to checkout and build the project is same as local environment.  

**NOTE:** By default, Hadoop on EMR machines is installed at location `/usr/lib/hadoop`. Also, GnuPlot are not supported on EMR.

## GnuPlot for debugging
Optionally, developers can debug the output generated by the program by plotting 3D scatter plot on their local machines. However, we do not support GnuPlot feature on EMR instances. For users working with EMR, copy the generated output files using `scp` to their local enironment.  
Following are the instructions to use GnuPlot on local machine:

1. Install GnuPlot -
   * For Debian based distributions (like Ubuntu) use - `sudo apt-get install gnuplot-x11`
   * For RHEL, Fedora, CentOS do following -
     * `sudo yum update` 
     * `sudo yum install gnuplot`
     * Note: For some reason if below intructions doesn't work, enter gnuplot shell using command `gnuplot` and change the terminal to `x11` using command `set terminal x11`
2. Before you can use gnuplot, you must generate output using - `./image-stitcher.sh run` command
3. Make sure you have correctly set the parameter `gnuplot.process.path` in _configuration.properties_ files. Whenever you set/change a parameter, you must execute `./image-stitcher.sh build`.
4. The output directory may have multiple part files generated by the mapreduce program (depending on number of lines in the input file). Each part file contains a list of matching correspondences (from source to target) generated based on the one line of input configuration parameters. To visualize these points on a 3D scatter plot, execute `./image-stitcher.sh plot` command.
